-You say it with me. -Okay, one, two, three, clap.
Is that going to happen? Maybe it'll help, hopefully that helped them.
-Hopefully.
-There's been a lot of AI hype, and I don't know anyone that's
partaking more than Adam. -Oh, jeez.
-So tell me about it. I know you hate this, but it is true.
-I feel like one of the NFT guys are the crypto bros.
You've been hard into the blockchain space, Adam. Tell me about blockchain.
I feel like AI is getting that reputation of the thing after crypto.
Have you heard that? It's not totally wrong, but it's also kind of weird because AI has been
serious scientific research for decades or whatever.
-Yeah, I think when stuff gets hype, there's always going to be that group.
And I agree that AI isn't as BS as the previous waves of NFT and all that stuff.
But I will say, there are a whole crowd of people that moves here to Miami
because of the crypto wave. A lot of them are recently leaving to go to SF
to jump onto the AI wave. -Really?
-So that type of person is definitely going through the cycle.
-Yeah, okay. So that's why I kind of cringed or just kind of died inside a little bit when
you're like, "So Adam, you've been going hard in this space. Tell me about it."
Because I don't feel like I'm one of those people. -No, definitely not.
-And I haven't gone hard down the AI space recently. I feel like
I just like cool things to come up when there's cool products that I can hit a website and play
with. I like to do that. And there's been a lot of cool products that fall into that umbrella.
And I've played with them. -Well, what kind of stuff have you tried so far?
-There's so many different, it's like generative stuff. So we've got all the like image generation
and now video generation, that whole space. So the like dolly kind of mid-journey kicked it off.
And now you've got stable diffusion, which is like an open source version of it. Like taking
text prompts and generating images that are insane. I mean, most people have seen this stuff at this
point. There's that whole section of AI. There's like, you know, we built statues back in 2014
and we're trying to do like question answering. So now there's a way better question answering
using these LLM models or whatever, large language models. So chat GBT, where you can ask it
text and it understands it and responds with a bunch of text that that angle. And then you've
got like all the other generative things, generative audio, basically anything that humans create,
people are now teaching computers how to create it as well. I feel so dumb, like I'm some expert
on this stuff. I don't know anything. I just know I've played with most of it because it's very
interesting to me. But there's so many like debates about every single piece of this technology around
should computers just be able to generate art that's copying real artists? What does that mean?
Don't real artists copy real artists? Like, what's the difference? There's all these kind of
questions. Okay, I'm now just into the realm of saying words that you didn't ask for. So I'm
gonna stop. No, I mean, that's I think that's a good thing to get into. I mean, none of us are
experts in this space. But the thing that's happening right now is these tools are become
available to non experts like us to integrate into the last mile of whatever we're building.
So that's what's exciting about it. And I think there's a lot to think about where where it is
useful. There's so many companies being started that are, they quote unquote AI companies now,
does that make sense? Or is it more like, okay, these tools now show up in like little features
of existing products? I mean, the thing you talk about also the debate around like the whole
art angle of it. Like, what do you have thoughts on that? Like, how do you feel about that whole
conversation? I mean, I'm not an artist. So you should take my opinion with a grain of salt.
No, we'll co-pilot or code whisper or one of these like models that are helping us write code
faster. They're just copying works from people like me who write code and contributed to GitHub.
So I guess in that sense, I can kind of put myself in the artist's shoes and say like,
do I care that people can use co-pilot and write code, even if it were copying straight from a repo
I contributed? No, I don't care. But that's me. And I don't feel like I can say an artist shouldn't
care because like, they care. Like their emotions, their feelings about the situation are valid,
whether I think they are or not. There's the legal side of it. It's not just people's feelings
being hurt. Like, what does copyright mean in this world where like law doesn't, it trails, right?
And like legislation didn't account for computers ripping off people's work, I don't think. So I
think like that all has to play out from like an actual copyright law standpoint. And then there's
like the ethical side like, no, it's stealing people say. And maybe, I don't know, it doesn't
feel like stealing to me. It feels like putting a bunch of information in a big blender and
blending it up and spitting out stuff that's interesting. But I don't know, maybe that's just
what the, maybe that's what the AI bros say. Maybe I'm just running now.
Yeah, I mean, on the code side, that one's been interesting to me. Because like you said,
like we can relate to that because we're, you know, that's a content we produce.
I also have no problem with it. Because to me, I don't really look at it as anything different
than a much better search engine. But the UX, the search engine was a much better UX.
Yeah, like there have been times before where I could think of them at various specific examples.
Back when I used to configure webpack, I would get stuck on some option and I would search
code that looks kind of like the code I'm writing into GitHub. And I would find some example,
and I would try it copy paste like what they had and I would try it and it would work.
And I don't think anyone really has a problem with me doing that, right. But co-pilot just like
simplifies that process of doing that for you with much better search results where it's kind of like,
yep. Oh yeah, this is probably what you were looking for. So to me, it's just, it's like an
iteration on the same product on this like search product that GitHub has had forever,
but it's like a hundred times better. I've always felt weird about the code copyright thing.
I like can't think of any code I've ever written that's like, you like, no, this is an intellectual
all of it feels so trivial and obvious to me that someone copying it, like they could have
probably come with that on their own. They're just saving time. So it's like hard for me to
really feel like this is my property. I've never felt like I really invented anything.
Yeah, no, I agree. I think to put myself in the art issues, there are these models that can like
do style transfers. So you can say, I want a picture of like a panda on the moon in the style of Monet.
In that scenario, you're literally like having the AI mimic this person's style. Does that dilute
their style like on the internet where everything just gets uploaded and it's all just data coming
down to your browser? Do we start to have so many works that look like they were from Monet that
you dilute what are actual Monet paintings? Like do people know the difference anymore?
I could see that argument like for people's artistic legacy. I don't know. I'm not an artist.
So I do think it is a little different. Yeah, this also feels like there's also doesn't feel
super new to me. I dated someone for a while. That was a like very traditional painter.
Like she could you know like paint photorealistic stuff with like a paintbrush. She could do something
with pencil like all kinds of just very traditional art, you know, such styles. And then she switched
to digital art where she would now use an iPad. And a lot of people would say, hey, like that's not
real. Like you're not like you're just it's like too easy for you to like mimic something that you
know you would do in a traditional way. She had those skill sets. So like they were just wrong.
Yeah. But the same wave happened with digital art where people were like, that's okay, but it's not
real. Like this is the real stuff or like this makes it too easy or too accessible. But then
the day I just kind of see this as like a same progression on that spectrum. You're making stuff
more accessible without the same kind of input. Yeah, from like a creative explosion on the internet
standpoint, I think it's all net positive. I mean, it's like Steve Jobs always said like the computer,
the bicycle, the mind thing. Yeah, I think it's just like this is a motorcycle for the mind or
something. This is like AI tools, allowing people who don't have visual design skills to create.
I mean, for me, it's like I create all the podcast covers now with one of these tools,
because it's like I can just say my idea for what I think would be cool if it were that.
And then it can just generate something that looks pretty good. That's the thing that's now
accessible to me that I couldn't, I would have to hire someone before. And so in that sense,
I think it does open up anybody can create anything in some future, whether that's video
content, whether that's original written works that are augmented with AI stuff. I don't know,
like at what point does the lines between a creator and the tools get blurrier and blurrier?
I know people have feelings about this. I don't really have strong feelings either way.
I just think it's very interesting to me to see where it's all headed and just the types of things
that I just didn't think were possible that seem to be happening now on the weekly. It's like
there's new stuff every week that just blows my mind, video editing tools that you can just cut
stuff out of the video. And it just looks perfect. I mean, that kind of stuff, I just would have
thought it was years away. And it just keeps, keeps coming. Yeah, it definitely feels like we're
going through a compounding growth now where the stuff for each week is like better than
everything from the past six months. Have you tried some of the chat GPT stuff? Have you incorporated
that into any of your workflows? Like what's been your experience with that? Yeah, I mean,
I played with it, obviously, when it was when it was first out, I haven't used it in probably a few
weeks. I don't know what that says, but when it first came out, it was super interesting to me
from like a stack overflow replacement standpoint, like just asking it questions, I think I did it
on stream once. Like as I was learning something new, just like asking it questions about how do
you do this? Or I was revisiting Python, I think I was doing like that, some like AOC challenges or
something. And it was like, Oh, how do you do I forget list comprehension and Python, what's the
whatever? And it was really great for that kind of stuff, because it kind of hold your hand more
than than like Google will. But yeah, I don't know, it's I've seen a lot of the criticisms for the
language model stuff that it's it's not the ethical thing. It's more like it's garbage, like it's
spitting out random nonsense. And most of the time it's wrong. And like you can't trust it. So it's
probably only for like certain like cases where you don't need it to be factually accurate, you just
need inspiration. So like coming up with ideas, I think it's good for like brainstorming and things
like that. But yeah, if it's wrong on facts, I could see that getting people into trouble, I guess.
Yeah, I think I've had two experiences with this that have been interesting. So we had a bit of
Python code in the SST code base that we copied from somewhere and we just needed it and it worked
in a solve the problem. But it was annoying that was just randomly in a different language. And we
but we're never going to go sit down and like read through it and rewrite it because none of us are
Python experts. So as a pain. I think Frank used chat GPT to rewrite it all in the JavaScript and
he cleaned it up. And that was great because that would have just been sitting there forever otherwise.
So yeah, that's a genuinely situation that would have never been solved without something like this.
Then the other experience I had is kind of what you're saying where as a brainstorming partner,
I had to come up with a name from my react Miami talk. And I didn't need it to be
like the most brilliant work of all times of the title of this talk. I just needed to convey
certain things. So I just need to see a bunch of options and iterate and tweak. And that again was
a brand new experience where that usually is a solo endeavor. Maybe you're Googling stuff. But
doing it with chat GPT, I got to a really great place really quickly. And I'm pretty excited to
use it more as a brainstorming tool when I'm writing like scripts for stuff like things that
don't need to be really artful, right? Just stuff that gets to hit the minimum for certain things.
Oh, we use it for documentation all the time, actually. Oh, yeah.
We're documenting stuff for SST. Like you don't need it to be like fantastic pros. You just
needed to like communicate X ideas in a way that makes sense for most people.
Yep. And it makes sense that it would be good at that because there's just so much
software documentation out there on the internet that it's presumably been trained on.
Like it knows how to write docs for software. Yeah, exactly. And this it's like it's important
work, but it's not high skilled work. Yeah. And none of us really enjoy doing that. So
it's just not going to our workflows very quickly. Yeah, it's like I've seen people say it's like
having just like infinite interns that are free at your disposal at all times. It's
yeah, it's interesting that that's a whole other conversation, I guess. It's like,
what does this mean for the labor force moving forward? I mean, we've all like, I mean,
those jokes are not jokes, but just thought about like, wait a minute, when you go to the grocery
store and like most of the cashiers are replaced with the auto checkout thing. It's like, what
does this mean for society? That's the conversation. I don't even know how to begin to have because
I feel like it's too complicated. There's too much involved too. It's too complex.
So you mentioned docs. Astro did like the Langchain stuff where they created a little like custom
AI assistant. I guess that's based on GPT, not chat GPT, but it uses GPT to like scour and ingest
their docs. It's using embeddings, I think like you embed, in this case, a bunch of docs for Astro
into this custom language model. And now you have this assistant that's like perfect for answering
all your questions about Astro and it cites places in the documentation that you can go back to.
It's incredible stuff. Like, that's the kind of thing that I think we're going to see that all
over the place. Like, every open source project is going to have this thing. And somebody's going
to shrink wrap it into a product where you just click a button. I think I saw that already.
I think someone launched. Yeah, probably. Someone launched like that.
Yeah. It's just everything. It's like, feels like every single angle of our digital life is kind of
being assaulted or enhanced depending on your viewpoint with AI and augmentation in these ways.
Yeah. What I'm waiting for is right now, these experiences are kind of isolated or like they're
outside your normal habits or they're like that. I mean, the Astro Doc example is a great thing
where they have a separate experience you have to remember to go to to like have that type of
interface. I want this stuff more integrated into what I'm already used to doing, like when I'm
searching on Google, I don't think a hundred percent of my Google. And this is why like people
were saying, Oh, Google's dead because of chat GPT. But it's really just a feature. Like, I just want
maybe 10% of the searches I do. It makes sense to like push me down this type of experience.
And I just want to integrate it alongside everything else. I don't want to like switch my habits to go.
Oh, like, this is probably a good chat GPT question and like go into that website and do things.
It needs to be ubiquitous and needs to be invisible. And I think that's probably what we'll get to.
That's why I'm a little skeptical about a lot of these new startups that are like, Oh, we're building
up this AI enables us to build now this AI product. I think what's actually going to happen is
there's existing products where some features of it will be enhanced using some of these methods,
but you still need like a good core product. You just have access to like these new features that
enhance it. Yeah. And if you think about like so many products have been enhanced with AI or
it's central to them like social media and algorithm or algorithmic feeds like we've been fed content
from some brand of AI for years. It's just like now there's these I think it's the multimedia thing
that seems to be exploding. And then I guess the language stuff is just opens up all these other
applications, existing applications that can now leverage AI to make their thing better.
But can we talk actually, as I'm saying that, can we just talk about what what is the term AI?
I mean, artificial intelligence like what is the checkbox that something has to check to be
artificial intelligence? Because it's all just like statistical models, right? There's nothing
actually in the like the way we think about AI, this futuristic like the matrix stuff that like
I don't know, it's like smarter than us. This stuff isn't that, right? Yeah, it's probably the same
frustration we feel about the word serverless and it being so vague and hijacked by a million things.
Like we all kind of know what we're talking about. I don't know if there's like a clear way
to define it. When I think AI, I just mean it's like this UX experience that's a little different
than our your standard. I'm going to click this button to do this thing interface. It's more like
it's going to suggest what you do versus I know what I'm going to do when I execute it.
So I think that like falls into that category. I feel like, okay, it's like AI in the sense that
it kind of feels like you're interacting with something that's smart, even if it's not
you know, literally an intelligent being. And then the next question I guess for me is
so if it is just like more intelligent software than we're used to working with, in a lot of cases,
just manifest in the better user experience. Do we think these things and neither one of us
probably has to answer this. I don't know. I'm not smart enough to answer this question,
but I'm going to ask it anyway. Like does this stuff do these large giant statistical models
eventually lead to some artificial general intelligence where the stuff starts thinking on
its own and learning new things on its own and taking over the world? Like, yeah. Are these even
like steps towards that thing? Or is it just like a dead end? Yeah, as someone that is optimistic
and excited by this stuff, like I really hope so, but intuitively, it feels different, right?
These models are really capable and can do a lot of crazy things, but they do stuff that humans
cannot do. So I don't think we're recreating a human intelligence here because they can do stuff
that no human on the planet can do, but they can't do stuff that every human on the planet can do.
So these feel like I'm sure there's so much we can do as we continue to go down this direction,
and I'm sure we can make incredible, amazing things, but I'm not sure what's at the end of that is.
Okay, we've created a new life that is effectively conscious. I always think about how you can show
a little kid like a monkey one time, and for the rest of their life, they'll know what a monkey
is somebody to identify them. Yeah, it's different than we don't have to feed a kid like a billion
examples of it for it to then like build a model around it. So I don't know like maybe
possibly like as these things get more efficient than you listen, but these things just feel so
different to me that I'm not sure. Yeah, and maybe they don't need to be this. Maybe the whole
idea of like working towards artificial general intelligence is just dumb. Maybe what does it
matter if this stuff is able to help us accomplish so much more than we ever could have. And I guess
the the negative side of like the fear of AGI, the fear of like the singularity and this stuff
taking over the world, I guess that could happen even if it wasn't human-like. Like if we hooked up
enough of these tools that exist today to the internet or to the right buttons that they could
press, then they'd probably do horrible things in their current state and they're not that smart.
Like I guess like we can be afraid and excited about this stuff even if it's nothing like human
intelligence and never will be. Yeah, the thing for me is though there's like there's certain things
where I'm okay dying in a certain way. Like I'm not afraid of an alien invasion because like at least
don't know aliens were real like the second before I died. Similarly, if I die because AI took over,
like that's a pretty cool way to go to like I'm more afraid of just dying because I like tripped
on something and fell on my face, right? Yeah, no, that would suck. Like just yeah tripping the
shower, car accident, like the the mundane ways. But I guess for me, I assume there are aliens.
I mean, I assume there is intelligent lives somewhere out there. So they did find us. I wouldn't be like,
I mean, it would be a cool moment to witness in the history. Yeah, I guess to know for sure.
I guess I do. I feel like I do know for sure. I don't know. But you don't know. Maybe that's like
kind of philosophical. I don't know what they look like. I mean, it would be a cool moment. But I would
still be like, they found us. We're all screwed. Like that would be a bummer of a moment for me.
Yeah. Well, I feel like there's probably like 15 areas of AI that we still haven't talked about.
Am I missing anything super obvious? It is interesting. They're all happening at same time.
Like every week there's a new paper from some Google academic arm that like now they're doing
crazy music generation that's better than human music or whatever. Yeah, I did see that. Like,
did you, did you go through the examples that they had? I listened to, yeah, a bunch of the waves.
Yeah. What I like about all this stuff is that it's providing combinations that no one would bother
doing in real life. I forgot some of the examples that they had, but it was always
a mix of like two, two genres that you would never put together. And it just gives you like this.
Oh, like, yeah, that is really funny. Or like, like that just would not exist. Otherwise,
there's no one is going to like go spend a time like learning these two things and combine them.
And same thing with like the style transfer stuff on the, on the image, the image stuff,
you just get these really hilarious combinations of things. With the Monet example, if you really
are a fan of his style and the works that Monet put out there in the world, why not have more of
them? And why not have modern concepts painted in that style? I mean, I, again, I'm not Monet.
I'm not like, he's not one of my ancestors. So I'm not like the family of Monet, who's pissed
that AI is like, yeah, but it does seem like this, this ability to give anybody like,
we all have creativity in us. If everyone had more tools to express that in higher fidelity
ways, I just feel like that is a positive for humanity. But I don't know. Yeah, I feel the same
way. I feel like the ideal situation we get to is everyone spending most of their time getting
to be creative and as a little time as possible doing stuff that's tedious. And I think right now,
you know, a lot of our day to day work is a lot of tedious stuff that if it went away, we would
just replace with more creative work. And we've been able to do it in the past 100 years, like
that's already been like huge massive change. And I just want to see that keep going, just have more
people to be in a situation and to a higher and higher degree. Okay, so I can't, I can't not
ask this now. I'm going to break into the societal and like, just philosophical, whatever it is.
What about so this is very near to me, very practical recycling in Nixon, Missouri, where I live,
goes weeks at a time now without being picked up because there's not enough people working
at that specific facility or for that company. It's like a third party. It's not the city. But
they just can't get the labor to pick up recycling or trash reliably week to week. There are really
just bad jobs, like jobs nobody wants. A lot of them that we have not figured out how to
have robots do. Like, how does this all shake out if I think the knowledge worker class
our lives just keep getting better, really, for these reasons, like these tools are going to make
it easier, less tedious to do our jobs, and hopefully make it where more people could enter into these
knowledge working fields because there's lower barriers. But I guess like, until we automate
all the really bad jobs, does this not create this even more drastic and accelerating divide
between people who get to set at a desk all day and people who have to pick up garbage?
I don't know. Is that a terrible thing to say? As I said that last sentence, I felt very politically
incorrect or something when I said it. The thing you're getting at is a thing people feel. And I
think it just comes down to how you view the world. Whenever I see these advances, I don't think of
it as a zero-sum thing where now that some people's lives are better, they took it away from other
people. I think with a lot of this stuff, it just makes it whole pie bigger and creates more
opportunity for everyone. If there's less work I'm spending on tedious stuff. I'm doing more
important work that's having a bigger impact on the world. It's creating more opportunities for
other people. I think pretty much everything that most people do, there are some companies and
organizations that are zero-sum. They're just extracting value from certain things. But most
of us, the jobs we're doing, we're usually enabling other people to do stuff with less effort. And
that all is good. I think these are two separate problems. There are people that don't have a lot
of options. They don't have a lot of opportunities. Their lives are not going to get better until
they have 10 times as many things to choose from. This stuff doesn't help or hurt it. I don't think
I really don't think it hurts it. I think it can in a lot of ways help it. It unlocks people to
focus on some of these problems if there are less resources going to other places that are
more obvious. Again, I'm pretty optimistic when it comes to all this. I think I've seen myself,
the people I know, people in my family go from being in situations I didn't have a lot of opportunity
and I've seen them get to much better places. And it's because a lot of this stuff has unlocked
barriers for them and things that 100 years ago, they would have never been able to climb out of
the situation. Definitely nowhere near as good as we need things to be. I'm not saying things are
great. But I really do feel like we're going in the right direction. Yeah, I think I'm generally
an optimist too. And I don't know if I really expressed what my question there was or if I know
what my question was. I don't think I'm a very controversial person. But I know I've had these
conversations with my wife where it's like, I don't think anybody should have to do those awful jobs.
I hate that anyone has to. But also, we haven't figured out how to just have our modern society
without those types of jobs in the workforce. And it does seem like our generation or something
about the generational ebb and flow, like we have a smaller pool of people than the baby boomers
or whatever. And modern day society maybe can't handle some of that dynamic, the shifting generational
tides, like we're in a low tide, not as many people to do a lot of jobs. And there's still a lot of
jobs to be done. Maybe that maybe that's not a common thing. But I know we feel it here in the Ozarks
where like construction, it took forever, literally forever to get our landscaping.
I'm not literally forever so overdone. We waited like months, we were in a home without,
they're just dirt. And I know these are like first word problems, first world problems.
Like we built a home, we had to wait six months to get a lawn. That's not a big deal. But it is
sort of like pointing at this symptom, which I'm trying to highlight, which is a lot of physical
world jobs still have to be done. And there's not a lot of people to do them. And then I think of AI
making it where there's even fewer, I don't know, I don't know what I'm getting at. I don't know,
I'm going to stop talking. Yeah, I mean, I get what we were getting at. And in a lot of ways,
that's indicative of something good that's happening, because maybe those jobs weren't as
unappealing as appealing. And those people found other things to do, which is good,
which is great for them. And I want that to be the case. And then it's like, but as a society,
how do we solve like getting trash out of our neighborhood? I mean, to me, it's just,
the only way to solve this stuff is I think people take it two ways. You can either like,
I call it regressing, like, you know, demand less of your life. But I don't think that actually works.
I think the only way to really solve this stuff is we try to create so much abundance in other
places that even if there are people doing work that isn't super appealing, they're
compensated in a really good way or their quality of life is really high.
So I've thought about that. Why? Yeah. I know, again, I don't have the knowledge or this,
the world's complex. But I've definitely thought about like, why don't people doing the worst jobs
get paid more than the people doing the really easy jobs? Yeah, because they don't have a bunch
of opportunities. So if they can like pick between 10 things, someone, the system has to shift to
like compensating them really well for this thing that maybe isn't as appealing. So for me, it always
comes down again, lowering barriers, giving people more options, like letting them figure out what
they want to do. Anything that enables, I think, does put pressure on these other areas to correct
themselves or to to rebalance. Okay, so then is there a glimmer of hope here? I know this started
out on AI and I've turned it into like something entirely different. But is there this hope that
I can build a picture in my mind now that like as a person living in this neighborhood,
up to my ears and trash, I can hope that I would pay more to in taxes and whatever to make sure
the people who now have more options and can choose not to pick up trash can get paid better because
society has decided this is an important thing to us and we'll pay more for it because we've
created so much abundance. Is that the silver lining or the way I can look at this as a positive
optimistic outlook? Yeah, to me, that's the only way this stuff ever gets fixed in a sustainable
way. Anything else is like a temporary charity type situation where you maybe patch over a problem,
which is fine to do to like alleviate stuff short term, but long term like this is the only way
things have ever gotten better is only a quality of life is improved. It's because something came
out that created a massive abundance and we're able to redirect those resources to different
places and there's tons of like like you're saying it's all complex. There's tons of micro
problems with all this stuff, but as a general feeling, it's just good when people get more
opportunities to do things. It's always a good thing. No, it makes sense. Okay, sorry for that.
Whatever that was. I can't stay on a topic. We could start talking about anything and I
could end up on anything else. It's just completely fine with me. Okay, so AI, maybe AI is that thing
that's going to create all the abundance. Yeah, whatever AI is as a term, whatever encompasses.
I'm seeing a lot more people do stuff that they wouldn't be doing five years ago, so
that's just objectively good. I have no issue with that. Okay, we have anything else to cover on
this? No, I think that's that's everything. That was good. All right, that was fun. See you. See you next.
[Music]